README.md, before:

# laa-crime-applications-adaptor

This is a Java 17 based Spring Boot application hosted on [MOJ Cloud Platform](https://user-guide.cloud-platform.service.justice.gov.uk/documentation/concepts/about-the-cloud-platform.html).

[![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

### Decrypting docker-compose.override.yml

The `docker-compose.override.yml` is encrypted using [git-crypt](https://github.com/AGWA/git-crypt).

To run the app locally you need to be able to decrypt this file.

You will first need to create a GPG key. See [Create a GPG Key](https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/create-a-gpg-key.html) for details on how to do this with `GPGTools` (GUI) or `gpg` (command line).
You can install either from a terminal or just download the UI version.

```
brew update
brew install gpg
brew install git-crypt
```

Once you have done this, a team member who already has access can add your key by running `git-crypt add-gpg-user USER_ID`\* and creating a pull request to this repo.

Once this has been merged you can decrypt your local copy of the repository by running `git-crypt unlock`.

\*`USER_ID` can be your key ID, a full fingerprint, an email address, or anything else that uniquely identifies a public key to GPG (see "HOW TO SPECIFY A USER ID" in the gpg man page).
The apps should then startup cleanly if you run

### Application Set up

Clone Repository

```sh
git clone git@github.com:ministryofjustice/laa-crime-applications-adaptor.git

cd crime-applications-adaptor
```

Make sure all tests are passed by running following ‘gradle’ Command

```sh
./gradlew clean application:test
```

When running the application locally you will likely want to disable OAuth request authorisation, this can be done by replacing the `SecurityFilterChain` implementation with:

```java
http.authorizeHttpRequests(authorizeRequests -> authorizeRequests.anyRequest()
.permitAll());

return http.build();
```

You will need to build the artifacts for the source code, using `gradle`.

```sh
./gradlew clean application:build
```

```sh
docker-compose build
docker-compose up
```

`laa-crime-applications-adaptor` application will be running on http://localhost:8088

### Metrics and Health Check endpoints

There are a number of out of the box endpoints provided by Spring Boot for verifying application health and various metrics, some of which are enabled and accessible.

These endpoints include:

- http://localhost:8099/actuator
- http://localhost:8099/actuator/prometheus
- http://localhost:8099/actuator/health
- http://localhost:8099/actuator/info
- http://localhost:8099/actuator/metrics
- http://localhost:8088/api-docs (generated by `springdoc-openapi-starter-webmvc-ui` with URL path defined in `application.yaml` by `springdoc.api-docs.path: /api-docs`)

For a complete list of all out of the box actuator endpoints see [Spring Boot 3.1.5 - Actuator](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/3.1.5/reference/html/actuator.html#actuator).

### Debugging in IntelliJ

If you are using IntelliJ, you can do the following to run the debugger when running the application using docker:

- In IntelliJ, go to 'Run Configurations' and add a new 'Remote JVM Debug' configuration.
- Give it a name, set the host to `localhost` and the port to `8183`. Set 'Use module classpath' to `crime-applications-adaptor`. Hit 'OK' to save your changes.
- Run the application using `docker-compose up`. When it has started, you can select the debugger in IntelliJ at the top right and hit run.

### Functional API Tests

The project has been split into two sub module, `application` and `api-tests`. `api-tests` has been added to hold API tests written use Serenity, Cucumber and RestAssured. These tests
are designed to be run against a deployed version of the application in DEV or TEST. They will be run automatically as part of the gradle build unless the `application` module is specified.

For example:

```
// This command will build and test both modules
./gradlew clean build

// This command will run only the application module tests
./gradlew application:test

// This command will run only the api-tests tests
./gradlew api-tests:test
```

#### Test Configuration

The functional tests use Apache Commons Configuration2 to read the `config.properties` file and
provide environment
variable substitution. This is designed for use on the CI/CD pipeline where secrets will be injected
by environment variable.
When running locally create a copy of the properties file and name is `local.config.properties` and
populate it with the required values. This file is included in the `.gitignore` to avoid accidental
commits.
The trigger for using the `config.properties` is the presence of the `CHART_NAME` environment
variable which indicates
that the tests is being deployed and run via helm.

#### Running the API Tests

The API tests can be run through IntelliJ or using the following gradle command.

```
./gradlew api-tests:test
```

The test can also in run in the same manner as the CI/CD pipeline using the docker compose. In order
to do this you will need to create a `.env` file alongside the `docker-compose.api-tests.yaml` file
and populate it will the required parameters and then run the following command.

```shell
cd crime-applications-adaptor
docker-compose --file ./docker-compose.api-tests.yaml up --build
```

Example `.env` contents:

```shell
CAM_BASE_URL=https://laa-crime-apply-mock-api-<ENV>.apps.live.cloud-platform.service.justice.gov.uk/
CAM_JWT_SECRET=<INSERT>
CAM_JWT_ISSUER=maat-adapter-<ENV>
CAA_BASE_URL=https://laa-crime-applications-adaptor-<ENV>.apps.live.cloud-platform.service.justice.gov.uk
CAA_OAUTH_BASE_URL=https://caa-api-<ENV>.auth.eu-west-2.amazoncognito.com/
CAA_OAUTH_TOKEN_URI=oauth2/token
CAA_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<INSERT>
CAA_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<INSERT>
MAAT_CD_BASE_URL=https://maat-cd-api.<ENV>.legalservices.gov.uk/
MAAT_CD_AUTH_BASE_URL=https://maat-cd-api-<ENV>.auth.eu-west-2.amazoncognito.com/
MAAT_CD_AUTH_CAA_CLIENT_ID=<INSERT>
MAAT_CD_AUTH_CAA_CLIENT_SECRET=<INSERT>
MAAT_CD_AUTH_TOKEN_URI=oauth2/token
CHART_NAME=laa-caa-api-tests
```

### Code Formatting

This project has been set up to use the Spotless Gradle pluging to detect and fix code formatting
issues. The plugin will run as part fo the `./gradlew clean build` task
and corrections can be applied using the `./gradlew spotlessApply` task. For more information see
the confleunce
page [here](https://dsdmoj.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ASLST/pages/4778786826/Common+Java+Code+Style+settings).

Commit message:

LASB-3669 Remove Secrets from docker-compose.override.yml & Configure .env Files Stored in 1Password

README.md, after:

# laa-crime-applications-adaptor

This is a Java 17 based Spring Boot application hosted on [MOJ Cloud Platform](https://user-guide.cloud-platform.service.justice.gov.uk/documentation/concepts/about-the-cloud-platform.html).

[![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

### Obtaining environment variables for running locally

To run the app locally, you will need to download the appropriate environment variables from the team vault in 1Password. These environment variables are stored as a .env file, which docker-compose uses when starting up the service. If you don't see the team vault, speak to your tech lead to get access.

To begin with, make sure that you have the 1Password CLI installed:

```sh
op --version
```

If the command is not found, [follow the steps on the 1Password developer docs to get the CLI set-up](https://developer.1password.com/docs/cli/get-started/).

Once you're ready to run the application:

```sh
./start-local.sh
```

### Decrypting values files

The values YAML files are encrypted using [git-crypt](https://github.com/AGWA/git-crypt).

To be able to view and/or edit these files, you will need to decrypt them first.

You will first need to create a GPG key. See [Create a GPG Key](https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/create-a-gpg-key.html) for details on how to do this with `GPGTools` (GUI) or `gpg` (command line).
You can install either from a terminal or just download the UI version.

```
brew update
brew install gpg
brew install git-crypt
```

Once you have done this, a team member who already has access can add your key by running `git-crypt add-gpg-user USER_ID`\* and creating a pull request to this repo.

Once this has been merged you can decrypt your local copy of the repository by running `git-crypt unlock`.

\*`USER_ID` can be your key ID, a full fingerprint, an email address, or anything else that uniquely identifies a public key to GPG (see "HOW TO SPECIFY A USER ID" in the gpg man page).
The apps should then startup cleanly if you run

### Application Set up

Clone Repository

```sh
git clone git@github.com:ministryofjustice/laa-crime-applications-adaptor.git

cd crime-applications-adaptor
```

Make sure all tests are passed by running following ‘gradle’ Command

```sh
./gradlew clean application:test
```

When running the application locally you will likely want to disable OAuth request authorisation, this can be done by replacing the `SecurityFilterChain` implementation with:

```java
http.authorizeHttpRequests(authorizeRequests -> authorizeRequests.anyRequest()
.permitAll());

return http.build();
```

You will need to build the artifacts for the source code, using `gradle`.

```sh
./gradlew clean application:build
```

```sh
./startup-local.sh
```

`laa-crime-applications-adaptor` application will be running on http://localhost:8088

### Metrics and Health Check endpoints

There are a number of out of the box endpoints provided by Spring Boot for verifying application health and various metrics, some of which are enabled and accessible.

These endpoints include:

- http://localhost:8099/actuator
- http://localhost:8099/actuator/prometheus
- http://localhost:8099/actuator/health
- http://localhost:8099/actuator/info
- http://localhost:8099/actuator/metrics
- http://localhost:8088/api-docs (generated by `springdoc-openapi-starter-webmvc-ui` with URL path defined in `application.yaml` by `springdoc.api-docs.path: /api-docs`)

For a complete list of all out of the box actuator endpoints see [Spring Boot 3.1.5 - Actuator](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/3.1.5/reference/html/actuator.html#actuator).

### Debugging in IntelliJ

If you are using IntelliJ, you can do the following to run the debugger when running the application using docker:

- In IntelliJ, go to 'Run Configurations' and add a new 'Remote JVM Debug' configuration.
- Give it a name, set the host to `localhost` and the port to `8183`. Set 'Use module classpath' to `crime-applications-adaptor`. Hit 'OK' to save your changes.
- Run the application using `docker-compose up`. When it has started, you can select the debugger in IntelliJ at the top right and hit run.

### Functional API Tests

The project has been split into two sub module, `application` and `api-tests`. `api-tests` has been added to hold API tests written use Serenity, Cucumber and RestAssured. These tests
are designed to be run against a deployed version of the application in DEV or TEST. They will be run automatically as part of the gradle build unless the `application` module is specified.

For example:

```
// This command will build and test both modules
./gradlew clean build

// This command will run only the application module tests
./gradlew application:test

// This command will run only the api-tests tests
./gradlew api-tests:test
```

#### Test Configuration

The functional tests use Apache Commons Configuration2 to read the `config.properties` file and
provide environment
variable substitution. This is designed for use on the CI/CD pipeline where secrets will be injected
by environment variable.
When running locally create a copy of the properties file and name is `local.config.properties` and
populate it with the required values. This file is included in the `.gitignore` to avoid accidental
commits.
The trigger for using the `config.properties` is the presence of the `CHART_NAME` environment
variable which indicates
that the tests is being deployed and run via helm.

#### Running the API Tests

The API tests can be run through IntelliJ or using the following gradle command.

```
./gradlew api-tests:test
```

The test can also in run in the same manner as the CI/CD pipeline using the docker compose. In order
to do this you will need to create a `.env` file alongside the `docker-compose.api-tests.yaml` file
and populate it will the required parameters and then run the following command.

```shell
cd crime-applications-adaptor
docker-compose --file ./docker-compose.api-tests.yaml up --build
```

Example `.env` contents:

```shell
CAM_BASE_URL=https://laa-crime-apply-mock-api-<ENV>.apps.live.cloud-platform.service.justice.gov.uk/
CAM_JWT_SECRET=<INSERT>
CAM_JWT_ISSUER=maat-adapter-<ENV>
CAA_BASE_URL=https://laa-crime-applications-adaptor-<ENV>.apps.live.cloud-platform.service.justice.gov.uk
CAA_OAUTH_BASE_URL=https://caa-api-<ENV>.auth.eu-west-2.amazoncognito.com/
CAA_OAUTH_TOKEN_URI=oauth2/token
CAA_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<INSERT>
CAA_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<INSERT>
MAAT_CD_BASE_URL=https://maat-cd-api.<ENV>.legalservices.gov.uk/
MAAT_CD_AUTH_BASE_URL=https://maat-cd-api-<ENV>.auth.eu-west-2.amazoncognito.com/
MAAT_CD_AUTH_CAA_CLIENT_ID=<INSERT>
MAAT_CD_AUTH_CAA_CLIENT_SECRET=<INSERT>
MAAT_CD_AUTH_TOKEN_URI=oauth2/token
CHART_NAME=laa-caa-api-tests
```

### Code Formatting

This project has been set up to use the Spotless Gradle pluging to detect and fix code formatting
issues. The plugin will run as part fo the `./gradlew clean build` task
and corrections can be applied using the `./gradlew spotlessApply` task. For more information see
the confleunce
page [here](https://dsdmoj.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ASLST/pages/4778786826/Common+Java+Code+Style+settings).
